.Dd Dez 16, 2015
.Dt UPSDAEMON 8
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME
.Nm upsdaemon
.Nd Simple Program UPS for Unix
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm upsdaemon 
.Pa [device]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
The
.Nm
is a simple program to monitor os (UPS) series APC-Pro.
When the power fail, the UpsDaemon it effects shutdown the system.
.Pp
To use the upsdaemon you must posses the qualified serial,
device in kernel (sio).
.Pp
The device is assumed to be /dev/cuad0 by default.
.Pp
.Nm UpsDaemon:
The program monitors the serial port, keeys
.Ar DTR
(Data Terminal Ready) raised and  
.Ar RTS 
(Request To Send) lowered.
When the upsdaemon sees the
.Ar RNG
high, runs the upsdaemon-alerts
(powerfail warning) and reports failure to syslog.
If the power failure continued for 5 minutes (defined), the upsdaemon runs the 
upsdaemon-alerts (down), reports to syslog and makes the UPS to sleep by
.Ar RTS.
The power recovered within 5 minutes, the upsdaemon runs the 
upsdaemon-alerts (recovery) and continues to monitor the serial 
port for another powerfilure. In case the batter low is observed, 
the upsdaemon runs the upsdaemon-alerts (emergency shutdown now) immediately, 
reports to syslog and makes the UPS to sleep.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /usr/local/libexec/upsdaemon/upsdaemon-alerts [options]
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl battery
Power failure warning Shell:
A shell-script to inform users the power goes out and the system will be down soon.
It generates log in:
.Pa (/var/log/upsdaemon-alerts.log)
.It Fl down
Shutdown Shell:
A shell-script to shutdown the system cleanly. Its generates log in:
.Pa (/var/log/upsdaemon-alerts.log)
.It Fl failed
Emergency shutdown Shellt: A shell-script to execute emergency halt for battery power failing.
Its generates log in:
.Pa (/var/log/upsdaemon-alerts.log)
.It Fl recovery
Power recovery Shell: A shell-script to inform users the power has been restored and system 
shutdown was canceled. Its generates log in:
.Pa (/var/log/upsdaemon-alerts.log)
.Pp 
Starting upsdaemon:
.Pa /usr/local/etc/rc.d/upsdaemon
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Pp
The UpsDaemon is connected to the serial  port1 and  default
value /dev/cuad0 is used.
.Pp
  $ upsdaemon /dev/cuad0
.Pp
The upsdaemon port is specified to be the serial port2
/dev/cuad1 using command argument.
.Pp
  $ upsdaemon /dev/cuad1
.Pp
.Sh OTHER INFO
.Pp
Webpage for UpsDaemon is at https://github.com/ederbsd/upsdaemon
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr upsdaemon(8)
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ederson de Moura <ederbsd@gmail.com>
